1. For this challenge you need to create a simple SELECT statement that will return all columns from the people table WHERE their age is over 50

people table schema
id
name
age
You should return all people fields where their age is over 50 and order by the age descending:

SELECT *
FROM people
WHERE age > 50
ORDER BY age DESC;

<This statement selects all columns (*) from the people table, where the age is greater than 50 and it orders the results by age in descending order.>

2.You received an invitation to an amazing party. Now you need to write an insert statement to add yourself to the table of participants.

participants table schema

name (string)
age (integer)
attending (boolean)
NOTES:

Since alcohol will be served, you can only attend if you are 21 or older
You can't attend if the attending column returns anything but true.

INSERT INTO participants(name, age, attending)
VALUES ('name', 33, true);

SELECT * FROM participants;

<This statement is inserting a new row into the participants table. The values being inserted into the row are 'name' for the name column, 33 for the age column, and true for the attending column.
This statement is selecting all columns (*) from the participants table. This statement is used to retrieve all data from the table after the first statement has been executed.

Together, these two statements accomplish the following:

The first statement is inserting a new row into the participants table with the specified values.
The second statement is selecting all the data from the participants table.
This plan can be useful when you want to insert a new row into a table and then retrieve the data from that table to check that the row has been inserted correctly.>

3. Given a table of random numbers as follows:

numbers table schema
id
number1
number2
Your job is to return table with similar structure and headings, where if the sum of a column is odd, the column shows the minimum value for that column, and when the sum is even, it shows the max value. You must use a case statement.

output table schema
number1
number2

SELECT 
CASE 
    WHEN SUM(number1) % 2 = 1 THEN MIN(number1) 
    ELSE MAX(number1) 
END AS number1, 
CASE 
    WHEN SUM(number2) % 2 = 1 THEN MIN(number2) 
    ELSE MAX(number2) 
END AS number2 
FROM numbers;

<This query will first calculate the sum of the 'number1' column, and check if it's odd or even using the modulus operator (%). If it's odd, it will return the minimum value of 'number1' column, and if it's even, it will return the maximum value of the 'number1' column. The same process is repeated for 'number2' column.

Please note that this query will return only one row, with one column for each of the two columns in the original table. if you want the whole table you should add the id column and group by it.>
